doc/dev/notes/keymgr-certificates.md, before:

# Storing certificates in the Arti key store

## Motivation

We have decided to add support for storing certificates in the Arti keystore
(see #1617).

This is needed, for example, to enable relays to run with offline identity keys.

## Assumptions

Here are the assumptions that motivate the design proposed here:

  * keys may have multiple certificates for different purposes.
  While we don't have such keys right now,
  we might conceivably need to support this in the future.
  For this reason, the new APIs described here support certificates
  that have a many:1 relationship with their subject keys.
  * the keys that are expected to have
  an associated certificate[^1] stored in the keystore
  will be accessed through the new
  `KeyMgr::{get_key_and_cert, get_or_generate_key_and_cert}` APIs
  instead of the `KeyMgr::{get, get_or_generate}` ones.
  In addition to retrieving the key/certificate,
  the new `*_and_cert` APIs will also validate the key certificate
  (by checking if it is well-signed and timely).
  * the `ArtiPath` of a certificate is derived from the `ArtiPath`
  of the key it certifies. More specifically, it is formed by
  concatenating the `ArtiPath` of the subject key with the
  denotators provided by
  `KeyCertificateSpecifier::cert_denotators()`, if any
  (if there are no cert denotators, the `ArtiPath` of the certificate
  is the same as the `ArtiPath` of the subject key).
  The reason we are not giving certificates their own
  `KeyCertificateSpecifier`-defined `ArtiPath`
  is because we want to ensure the certificates stored
  in the keystore are always for subject keys that we own
  (that is, the subject key **must** be a key
  the key management system knows about)

[^1]: The key is said to have an "associated certificate" if
it is the subject key of a certificate used in the Tor protocol

### Key certificate representation

The purpose and meaning of the certificate, as well as the algorithms
of the subject and signing keys, will be given by the `KeyType`
of the certificate (i.e. the file extension).

More specifically, the `KeyType` of a certificate encodes the following:

1. The cryptographic algorithms of the subject key and the signing key
2. How the subject key value and its properties are encoded before
   the signing key key makes its signature
3. How the signature and the other information is encoded for storage.

> Note: the name of the `KeyType` enum now makes little sense,
> because it no longer represents a key type, but rather a type of object
> we're able to serialize and write to the keystore.

> Recall that the `KeyType` of an object is given by its `EncodableKey` impl:
> ```rust
> pub trait EncodableKey: Downcast {
>     /// The type of the key.
>     fn key_type() -> KeyType
>     where
>         Self: Sized;
>
>     /// Return the [`SshKeyData`] of this key.
>     fn as_ssh_key_data(&self) -> Result<SshKeyData>;
> }
> ```
>
> Like keys, certificates are encodable in the keystore,
> so like keys, they must implement `EncodableKey`
> (and therefore have an associated  `KeyType`, and `SshKeyData`).
>
> As a result, `EncodableKey`, `KeyType`, and `SshKeyData`
> will need to be renamed (see the "Proposed renamings" section below).

For example, the keystore entries for the `K_relaysign_ed` key are

| Key                            | Description                                                  |
|--------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `KS_relaysign_ed`              | medium-term signing keypair                                  |
| `KP_relaysign_ed`              | public part of `KS_relaysign_ed`                             |
| `KP_relaysign_ed` certificate  | `KP_relaysign_ed` signed by the `KS_relayid_ed` identity key |

In the on-disk Arti key store, their paths will be

| Key                            | `ArtiPath`                      | Path                                              |
|--------------------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `KS_relaysign_ed`              | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>` | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>.ed25519_private`   |
| `KP_relaysign_ed`              | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>` | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>.ed25519_public`    |
| `KP_relaysign_ed` certificate  | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>` | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>.tor_ed25519_cert`  |

Where `<valid_until>` is the expiry timestamp of the key.
The exact format of this identifier is outside the scope of this document
(see !2577).

> Note that in the general case, a key certificate has a path of the form
> `<KEY_PATH>[+<D1>+<D2>+..+<Dn>]`, where `<KEY_PATH>` is the `ArtiPath`
> of the subject key, and `D1`, `D2`, ..., `Dn` are the certificate denotators
> (obtained from `KeyCertificateSpecifier::cert_denotators()`).

We will introduce a new `tor_ed25519_cert` extension for Tor Ed25519 certificates
(represented in the Rust API by a new `KeystoreItemType::Ed25519TorCert` variant -- see below).

### Storage format

The key certificates for `K_relaysign_ed` keys will be stored in the keystore
in Tor's [certificate format](https://spec.torproject.org/cert-spec.html#ed-certs).

Note: the [Tor ed25519 key format](https://spec.torproject.org/cert-spec.html#ed-certs)
can only represent signatures *by* ed25519 keys
but it can represent signatures *on* a variety of algorithms.
The `.tor_ed25519` extension and the `KeystoreItemType::Ed25519TorCert` enum variant
are used only when the `CERT_KEY_TYPE` is `01`;
other subject key algorithms (types) will have different `KeystoreItemType` and extension.

If at some point we choose to support other kinds of certificates
(i.e. with a different purpose and meaning),
we will likely use a different certificate format (not specified here).

If we ever decide to change the format of the `K_relaysign_ed` certificate,
we will deprecate the existing `.tor_ed25519_cert` key type,
and introduce a new one for certificates using the new format.

#### Implementation details

```rust
/// The "specifier" of a key certificate, which identifies an instance of a cert,
/// as well as its signing and subject keys.
///
/// Certificates can only be fetched from Arti key stores
/// (we will not support loading certs from C Tor's key directory)
pub trait KeyCertificateSpecifier {
    /// The denotators of the certificate.
    ///
    /// Used by `KeyMgr` to derive the `ArtiPath` of the certificate.
    /// The `ArtiPath` of a certificate is obtained
    /// by concatenating the `ArtiPath` of the subject key with the
    /// denotators provided by this function,
    /// with a `+` between the `ArtiPath` of the subject key and
    /// the denotators (the `+` is omitted if there are no denotators).
    ///
    //
    // TODO: perhaps we should invent (or find an existing) NonEmptyVec type
    // to use here instead of Vec
    fn cert_denotators(&self) -> Vec<dyn KeySpecifierComponent>;
    /// The key specifier of the signing key.
    ///
    /// Returns `None` if the signing key should not be retrieved from the keystore.
    ///
    /// Note: a return value of `None` means the signing key will be provided
    /// as an argument to the `KeyMgr` accessor this `KeyCertificateSpecifier`
    /// will be used with.
    fn signing_key_specifier(&self) -> Option<&dyn KeySpecifier>;
    /// The key specifier of the subject key.
    fn subject_key_specifier(&self) -> &dyn KeySpecifier;

    // other functions TBD
}
```

`KeyMgr` will be extended with some new functions
for cert retrieval and validation:

```rust
impl KeyMgr {
    /// Read the specified key and certificate from one of the key stores,
    /// deserializing the subject key as `K::Key`, the cert as `C::Cert`,
    /// and the signing key (if the provided `signing_key` is `None`)
    /// as `C::SigningKey`.
    ///
    /// Returns `Ok(None)` if none of the key stores have the requested key.
    ///
    /// This function validates the certificate,
    /// returning an error if it is invalid or missing.
    /// More specifically, it returns an error if
    ///    * the certificate is not timely
    ///      (i.e. it is expired, or not yet valid), or
    ///    * the certificate is not well-signed, or
    ///    * the subject key or signing key in the certificate do not match
    ///      the subject and signing keys specified in `cert_spec`
    ///
    /// Exactly one of `signing_key` and `cert_spec.signing_key_specifier()` can be `Some`.
    /// If both are missing, or both are present, an error is returned.
    //
    // TODO: this function takes a lot of args.
    // When we implement it, we should rethink its args.
    // Alternatively, we might choose to make the signing_key specifier
    // from KeyCertificateSpecifier non-optional,
    // and provide a *different* certificate specifier type for key certificates
    // where the signing key is not present in the keystore.
    // We would also provide a different set of `KeyMgr::get*` functions
    // for retrieving such key certificates.
    // These new `KeyMgr::get* functions would take a non-optional
    // signing key argument.
    fn get_key_and_cert<K: ToEncodableKey, C: ToEncodableCert<K>>(
        &self,
        cert_spec: &dyn KeyCertificateSpecifier,
        signing_key: Option<<C as ToEncodableCert<K>>::SigningKey>,
      ) -> Result<Option<(K, C)>> {
        ...
    }

    /// Read the specified key and certificate from one of the key stores,
    /// deserializing the subject key as `K::Key`, the cert as `C::Cert`,
    /// and the signing key (if the provided `signing_key` is `None`)
    /// as `C::SigningKey`,
    /// generating the key and its corresponding certificate
    /// if either does not exist.
    ///
    /// See [`KeyMgr::get_key_and_cert`] for possible errors.
    ///
    /// Generates the missing key and/or certificate as follows:
    ///
    /// | Subject Key exists | Signing Key exists | Cert exists | Action                                 |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | Y                  | Y/N                | Y           | Validate cert,                         |
    /// |                    |                    |             | return key and cert if valid,          |
    /// |                    |                    |             | error otherwise                        |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | N                  | Y                  | N           | Generate subject key and               |
    /// |                    |                    |             | a new cert signed with signing key     |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | Y                  | Y                  | N           | Generate cert signed with signing key  |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | Y                  | N                  | N           | Error - cannot generate cert           |
    /// |                    |                    |             | if signing key is not available        |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | N                  | N                  | N           | Error - cannot generate cert           |
    /// |                    |                    |             | if signing key is not available        |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | N                  | Y/N                | Y           | Error - subject key was removed?       |
    /// |                    |                    |             | (we already have a cert for it,        |
    /// |                    |                    |             | but it's unavailable)                  |
    //
    // TODO: this will need an extra argument specifying the expiry
    // and other data that needs to go into the certificate
    ///
    /// Exactly one of `signing_key` and `cert_spec.signing_key_specifier()` can be `Some`.
    /// If both are missing, or both are present, an error is returned.
    //
    // TODO: this function takes a lot of args.
    // When we implement it, we should rethink its args.
    // Alternatively, we might choose to make the signing_key specifier
    // from KeyCertificateSpecifier non-optional,
    // and provide a *different* certificate specifier type for key certificates
    // where the signing key is not present in the keystore.
    // We would also provide a different set of `KeyMgr::get*` functions
    // for retrieving such key certificates.
    // These new `KeyMgr::get* functions would take a non-optional
    // signing key argument.
    fn get_or_generate_key_and_cert<K: ToEncodableKey, C: ToEncodableCert>(
        &self,
        cert_spec: &dyn KeyCertificateSpecifier,
        signing_key: Option<<C as ToEncodableCert<K>>::SigningKey>,
      ) -> Result<(K, C)> {
        ...
    }

    // Note: this list of proposed additions is non-exhaustive.
    // In the future, we might decide to also add
    // e.g. a get_cert() function for retrieving a certificate
}
```

where `ToEncodableCert` is a new trait of the form:

```rust
/// A trait representing an encodable certificate.
///
/// `K` represents the (Rust) type of the subject key.
pub trait ToEncodableCert<K: ToEncodableKey> {
    /// The low-level type this can be converted to/from.
    type Cert: EncodableKey + 'static;

    /// The (Rust) type of the signing key.
    type SigningKey: ToEncodableKey;

    /// Validate this certificate.
    //
    // This function will be called from functions such as KeyMgr::get_key_and_cert()
    // to validate the cert using the provided subject key
    // (the concrete type of which is given by the `K` in KeyMgr::get_key_and_cert())
    // and ToEncodableCert::SigningKey.
    //
    /// TODO: explain how
    /// TODO: perhaps fold this into from_encodable_cert
    /// (i.e. change the signature of from_encodable_cert to also take a subject
    /// key and signing key, and have it handle validation internally).
    fn validate(&self, subject: &K, signed_with: &Self::SigningKey) -> Result<()>;

    /// Convert this cert to a type that implements [`EncodableKey`].
    fn to_encodable_cert(self) -> Self::Cert;

    /// Convert an [`EncodableKey`] to another cert type.
    fn from_encodable_cert(cert: Self::Cert) -> Self
    where
        Self: Sized;
}
```

Note: the `ToEncodableCert::Cert` type is an `EncodableKey`:
despite its now-misleading name, `EncodableKey` is still our trait representing objects
that can be encoded and stored in the keystore.

As mentioned before, once we add support for storing certificates,
the Arti keystore storage format will no longer be just OpenSSH
(it'll be OpenSSH for keys + the C Tor custom cert format for certificates),
so we ought to rename `SshKeyData` (the serializable storage type)
to `KeystoreItem`.

##### Proposed renamings

* preemptively rename `KeystoreEntry` to `KeystoreItemEntry`
* rename `EncodableKey::as_ssh_key_data()` to `EncodableKey::as_keystore_item()`
* replace `SshKeyData` with a new `KeystoreItem` type
* Rename the `EncodableKey` trait to `KeystoreEncodable`
  (other possible names: `EncodableEntry`, `EncodableKeystoreEntry`)
* Rename `KeyType` to `KeystoreItemType`

IOW, I propose we rewrite the `EncodableKey` trait like so

```rust
/// An object that can be converted to and from `KeystoreItem`.
///
/// Types implementing this trait can be written to the keystore.
//
// When adding a new `KeystoreEncodable` impl, you must also update
// [`KeystoreItem::into_erased`](crate::KeystoreItem::into_erased) to
// return the corresponding concrete type implementing `KeystoreEncodable`
// (as a `dyn KeystoreEncodable`).
pub trait KeystoreEncodable: Downcast {
    /// The kind of keystore item this is.
    fn item_type() -> KeystoreItemType
    where
        Self: Sized;

    /// Return the [`KeystoreItem`] representation of this object.
    fn as_keystore_item(&self) -> Result<KeystoreItem>;
}

/// A type of [`KeystoreEncodable`] entry
#[non_exhaustive]
enum KeystoreItemType {
    /// A key
    // KeyType is the same as before,
    // except its Unknown variant is moved to KeystoreItemType
    Key(KeyType),
    /// A key certificate
    Cert(CertType),
    /// An unrecognized entry type.
    Unknown {
        /// The extension used for entries of this type in an Arti keystore.
        arti_extension: String,
    },
}

#[non_exhaustive]
enum CertType {
    /// A Tor Ed25519 certificate.
    /// See https://spec.torproject.org/cert-spec.html#ed-certs
    Ed25519TorCert,
}

/// A public key, keypair, or key certificate.
#[derive(Clone, Debug)]
#[non_exhaustive]
pub struct KeystoreItem(KeystoreItemInner);

/// The inner representation of a KeystoreItem.
#[derive(Clone, Debug)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum KeystoreItemInner {
    /// A public key or a keypair.
    Key(SshKeyData),
    /// A certificate.
    Cert(CertData),
}

enum CertData {
    /// A tor-specific ed25519 cert.
    TorEd25519Cert(Vec<u8>),
}

// ======= unchanged =========

/// A public key or a keypair.
#[derive(Clone, Debug)]
#[non_exhaustive]
pub struct SshKeyData(SshKeyDataInner);

/// The inner representation of a public key or a keypair.
#[derive(Clone, Debug)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum SshKeyDataInner {
    /// The [`KeyData`] of a public key.
    Public(KeyData),
    /// The [`KeypairData`] of a private key.
    Private(KeypairData),
}
// ======= unchanged end =========
```

Commit message:

doc/dev/notes: keymgr-certificates: Emphasize that we won't manage arbitrary certs.

doc/dev/notes/keymgr-certificates.md, after:

# Storing certificates in the Arti key store

## Motivation

We have decided to add support for storing certificates in the Arti keystore
(see #1617).

This is needed, for example, to enable relays to run with offline identity keys.

## Assumptions

Here are the assumptions that motivate the design proposed here:

  * keys may have multiple certificates for different purposes.
  While we don't have such keys right now,
  we might conceivably need to support this in the future.
  For this reason, the new APIs described here support certificates
  that have a many:1 relationship with their subject keys.
  * the keys that are expected to have
  an associated certificate[^1] stored in the keystore
  will be accessed through the new
  `KeyMgr::{get_key_and_cert, get_or_generate_key_and_cert}` APIs
  instead of the `KeyMgr::{get, get_or_generate}` ones.
  In addition to retrieving the key/certificate,
  the new `*_and_cert` APIs will also validate the key certificate
  (by checking if it is well-signed and timely).
  * the `ArtiPath` of a certificate is derived from the `ArtiPath`
  of the key it certifies. More specifically, it is formed by
  concatenating the `ArtiPath` of the subject key with the
  denotators provided by
  `KeyCertificateSpecifier::cert_denotators()`, if any
  (if there are no cert denotators, the `ArtiPath` of the certificate
  is the same as the `ArtiPath` of the subject key).
  The reason we are not giving certificates their own
  `KeyCertificateSpecifier`-defined `ArtiPath`
  is because we want to ensure the certificates stored
  in the keystore are always for subject keys that we *own*.
  That is, the subject key **must** be a key
  whose private part is stored in one of our keystores.
  We will not provide functionality for retrieving certificates
  whose subject key we do not own, because the keymgr is not meant
  to be used as a general-purpose trusted certificate store.
  See the `tor_key_forge::key_type` module-level docs
  for more about the reasoning behind this.

[^1]: The key is said to have an "associated certificate" if
it is the subject key of a certificate used in the Tor protocol

### Key certificate representation

The purpose and meaning of the certificate, as well as the algorithms
of the subject and signing keys, will be given by the `KeyType`
of the certificate (i.e. the file extension).

More specifically, the `KeyType` of a certificate encodes the following:

1. The cryptographic algorithms of the subject key and the signing key
2. How the subject key value and its properties are encoded before
   the signing key key makes its signature
3. How the signature and the other information is encoded for storage.

> Note: the name of the `KeyType` enum now makes little sense,
> because it no longer represents a key type, but rather a type of object
> we're able to serialize and write to the keystore.

> Recall that the `KeyType` of an object is given by its `EncodableKey` impl:
> ```rust
> pub trait EncodableKey: Downcast {
>     /// The type of the key.
>     fn key_type() -> KeyType
>     where
>         Self: Sized;
>
>     /// Return the [`SshKeyData`] of this key.
>     fn as_ssh_key_data(&self) -> Result<SshKeyData>;
> }
> ```
>
> Like keys, certificates are encodable in the keystore,
> so like keys, they must implement `EncodableKey`
> (and therefore have an associated  `KeyType`, and `SshKeyData`).
>
> As a result, `EncodableKey`, `KeyType`, and `SshKeyData`
> will need to be renamed (see the "Proposed renamings" section below).

For example, the keystore entries for the `K_relaysign_ed` key are

| Key                            | Description                                                  |
|--------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| `KS_relaysign_ed`              | medium-term signing keypair                                  |
| `KP_relaysign_ed`              | public part of `KS_relaysign_ed`                             |
| `KP_relaysign_ed` certificate  | `KP_relaysign_ed` signed by the `KS_relayid_ed` identity key |

In the on-disk Arti key store, their paths will be

| Key                            | `ArtiPath`                      | Path                                              |
|--------------------------------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|
| `KS_relaysign_ed`              | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>` | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>.ed25519_private`   |
| `KP_relaysign_ed`              | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>` | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>.ed25519_public`    |
| `KP_relaysign_ed` certificate  | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>` | `relay/relaysign_ed+<valid_until>.tor_ed25519_cert`  |

Where `<valid_until>` is the expiry timestamp of the key.
The exact format of this identifier is outside the scope of this document
(see !2577).

> Note that in the general case, a key certificate has a path of the form
> `<KEY_PATH>[+<D1>+<D2>+..+<Dn>]`, where `<KEY_PATH>` is the `ArtiPath`
> of the subject key, and `D1`, `D2`, ..., `Dn` are the certificate denotators
> (obtained from `KeyCertificateSpecifier::cert_denotators()`).

We will introduce a new `tor_ed25519_cert` extension for Tor Ed25519 certificates
(represented in the Rust API by a new `KeystoreItemType::Ed25519TorCert` variant -- see below).

### Storage format

The key certificates for `K_relaysign_ed` keys will be stored in the keystore
in Tor's [certificate format](https://spec.torproject.org/cert-spec.html#ed-certs).

Note: the [Tor ed25519 key format](https://spec.torproject.org/cert-spec.html#ed-certs)
can only represent signatures *by* ed25519 keys
but it can represent signatures *on* a variety of algorithms.
The `.tor_ed25519` extension and the `KeystoreItemType::Ed25519TorCert` enum variant
are used only when the `CERT_KEY_TYPE` is `01`;
other subject key algorithms (types) will have different `KeystoreItemType` and extension.

If at some point we choose to support other kinds of certificates
(i.e. with a different purpose and meaning),
we will likely use a different certificate format (not specified here).

If we ever decide to change the format of the `K_relaysign_ed` certificate,
we will deprecate the existing `.tor_ed25519_cert` key type,
and introduce a new one for certificates using the new format.

#### Implementation details

```rust
/// The "specifier" of a key certificate, which identifies an instance of a cert,
/// as well as its signing and subject keys.
///
/// Certificates can only be fetched from Arti key stores
/// (we will not support loading certs from C Tor's key directory)
pub trait KeyCertificateSpecifier {
    /// The denotators of the certificate.
    ///
    /// Used by `KeyMgr` to derive the `ArtiPath` of the certificate.
    /// The `ArtiPath` of a certificate is obtained
    /// by concatenating the `ArtiPath` of the subject key with the
    /// denotators provided by this function,
    /// with a `+` between the `ArtiPath` of the subject key and
    /// the denotators (the `+` is omitted if there are no denotators).
    ///
    //
    // TODO: perhaps we should invent (or find an existing) NonEmptyVec type
    // to use here instead of Vec
    fn cert_denotators(&self) -> Vec<dyn KeySpecifierComponent>;
    /// The key specifier of the signing key.
    ///
    /// Returns `None` if the signing key should not be retrieved from the keystore.
    ///
    /// Note: a return value of `None` means the signing key will be provided
    /// as an argument to the `KeyMgr` accessor this `KeyCertificateSpecifier`
    /// will be used with.
    fn signing_key_specifier(&self) -> Option<&dyn KeySpecifier>;
    /// The key specifier of the subject key.
    fn subject_key_specifier(&self) -> &dyn KeySpecifier;

    // other functions TBD
}
```

`KeyMgr` will be extended with some new functions
for cert retrieval and validation:

```rust
impl KeyMgr {
    /// Read the specified key and certificate from one of the key stores,
    /// deserializing the subject key as `K::Key`, the cert as `C::Cert`,
    /// and the signing key (if the provided `signing_key` is `None`)
    /// as `C::SigningKey`.
    ///
    /// Returns `Ok(None)` if none of the key stores have the requested key.
    ///
    /// This function validates the certificate,
    /// returning an error if it is invalid or missing.
    /// More specifically, it returns an error if
    ///    * the certificate is not timely
    ///      (i.e. it is expired, or not yet valid), or
    ///    * the certificate is not well-signed, or
    ///    * the subject key or signing key in the certificate do not match
    ///      the subject and signing keys specified in `cert_spec`
    ///
    /// Exactly one of `signing_key` and `cert_spec.signing_key_specifier()` can be `Some`.
    /// If both are missing, or both are present, an error is returned.
    //
    // TODO: this function takes a lot of args.
    // When we implement it, we should rethink its args.
    // Alternatively, we might choose to make the signing_key specifier
    // from KeyCertificateSpecifier non-optional,
    // and provide a *different* certificate specifier type for key certificates
    // where the signing key is not present in the keystore.
    // We would also provide a different set of `KeyMgr::get*` functions
    // for retrieving such key certificates.
    // These new `KeyMgr::get* functions would take a non-optional
    // signing key argument.
    fn get_key_and_cert<K: ToEncodableKey, C: ToEncodableCert<K>>(
        &self,
        cert_spec: &dyn KeyCertificateSpecifier,
        signing_key: Option<<C as ToEncodableCert<K>>::SigningKey>,
      ) -> Result<Option<(K, C)>> {
        ...
    }

    /// Read the specified key and certificate from one of the key stores,
    /// deserializing the subject key as `K::Key`, the cert as `C::Cert`,
    /// and the signing key (if the provided `signing_key` is `None`)
    /// as `C::SigningKey`,
    /// generating the key and its corresponding certificate
    /// if either does not exist.
    ///
    /// See [`KeyMgr::get_key_and_cert`] for possible errors.
    ///
    /// Generates the missing key and/or certificate as follows:
    ///
    /// | Subject Key exists | Signing Key exists | Cert exists | Action                                 |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | Y                  | Y/N                | Y           | Validate cert,                         |
    /// |                    |                    |             | return key and cert if valid,          |
    /// |                    |                    |             | error otherwise                        |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | N                  | Y                  | N           | Generate subject key and               |
    /// |                    |                    |             | a new cert signed with signing key     |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | Y                  | Y                  | N           | Generate cert signed with signing key  |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | Y                  | N                  | N           | Error - cannot generate cert           |
    /// |                    |                    |             | if signing key is not available        |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | N                  | N                  | N           | Error - cannot generate cert           |
    /// |                    |                    |             | if signing key is not available        |
    /// |--------------------|--------------------|-------------|----------------------------------------|
    /// | N                  | Y/N                | Y           | Error - subject key was removed?       |
    /// |                    |                    |             | (we already have a cert for it,        |
    /// |                    |                    |             | but it's unavailable)                  |
    //
    // TODO: this will need an extra argument specifying the expiry
    // and other data that needs to go into the certificate
    ///
    /// Exactly one of `signing_key` and `cert_spec.signing_key_specifier()` can be `Some`.
    /// If both are missing, or both are present, an error is returned.
    //
    // TODO: this function takes a lot of args.
    // When we implement it, we should rethink its args.
    // Alternatively, we might choose to make the signing_key specifier
    // from KeyCertificateSpecifier non-optional,
    // and provide a *different* certificate specifier type for key certificates
    // where the signing key is not present in the keystore.
    // We would also provide a different set of `KeyMgr::get*` functions
    // for retrieving such key certificates.
    // These new `KeyMgr::get* functions would take a non-optional
    // signing key argument.
    fn get_or_generate_key_and_cert<K: ToEncodableKey, C: ToEncodableCert>(
        &self,
        cert_spec: &dyn KeyCertificateSpecifier,
        signing_key: Option<<C as ToEncodableCert<K>>::SigningKey>,
      ) -> Result<(K, C)> {
        ...
    }

    // Note: this list of proposed additions is non-exhaustive.
    // In the future, we might decide to also add
    // e.g. a get_cert() function for retrieving a certificate
}
```

where `ToEncodableCert` is a new trait of the form:

```rust
/// A trait representing an encodable certificate.
///
/// `K` represents the (Rust) type of the subject key.
pub trait ToEncodableCert<K: ToEncodableKey> {
    /// The low-level type this can be converted to/from.
    type Cert: EncodableKey + 'static;

    /// The (Rust) type of the signing key.
    type SigningKey: ToEncodableKey;

    /// Validate this certificate.
    //
    // This function will be called from functions such as KeyMgr::get_key_and_cert()
    // to validate the cert using the provided subject key
    // (the concrete type of which is given by the `K` in KeyMgr::get_key_and_cert())
    // and ToEncodableCert::SigningKey.
    //
    /// TODO: explain how
    /// TODO: perhaps fold this into from_encodable_cert
    /// (i.e. change the signature of from_encodable_cert to also take a subject
    /// key and signing key, and have it handle validation internally).
    fn validate(&self, subject: &K, signed_with: &Self::SigningKey) -> Result<()>;

    /// Convert this cert to a type that implements [`EncodableKey`].
    fn to_encodable_cert(self) -> Self::Cert;

    /// Convert an [`EncodableKey`] to another cert type.
    fn from_encodable_cert(cert: Self::Cert) -> Self
    where
        Self: Sized;
}
```

Note: the `ToEncodableCert::Cert` type is an `EncodableKey`:
despite its now-misleading name, `EncodableKey` is still our trait representing objects
that can be encoded and stored in the keystore.

As mentioned before, once we add support for storing certificates,
the Arti keystore storage format will no longer be just OpenSSH
(it'll be OpenSSH for keys + the C Tor custom cert format for certificates),
so we ought to rename `SshKeyData` (the serializable storage type)
to `KeystoreItem`.

##### Proposed renamings

* preemptively rename `KeystoreEntry` to `KeystoreItemEntry`
* rename `EncodableKey::as_ssh_key_data()` to `EncodableKey::as_keystore_item()`
* replace `SshKeyData` with a new `KeystoreItem` type
* Rename the `EncodableKey` trait to `KeystoreEncodable`
  (other possible names: `EncodableEntry`, `EncodableKeystoreEntry`)
* Rename `KeyType` to `KeystoreItemType`

IOW, I propose we rewrite the `EncodableKey` trait like so

```rust
/// An object that can be converted to and from `KeystoreItem`.
///
/// Types implementing this trait can be written to the keystore.
//
// When adding a new `KeystoreEncodable` impl, you must also update
// [`KeystoreItem::into_erased`](crate::KeystoreItem::into_erased) to
// return the corresponding concrete type implementing `KeystoreEncodable`
// (as a `dyn KeystoreEncodable`).
pub trait KeystoreEncodable: Downcast {
    /// The kind of keystore item this is.
    fn item_type() -> KeystoreItemType
    where
        Self: Sized;

    /// Return the [`KeystoreItem`] representation of this object.
    fn as_keystore_item(&self) -> Result<KeystoreItem>;
}

/// A type of [`KeystoreEncodable`] entry
#[non_exhaustive]
enum KeystoreItemType {
    /// A key
    // KeyType is the same as before,
    // except its Unknown variant is moved to KeystoreItemType
    Key(KeyType),
    /// A key certificate
    Cert(CertType),
    /// An unrecognized entry type.
    Unknown {
        /// The extension used for entries of this type in an Arti keystore.
        arti_extension: String,
    },
}

#[non_exhaustive]
enum CertType {
    /// A Tor Ed25519 certificate.
    /// See https://spec.torproject.org/cert-spec.html#ed-certs
    Ed25519TorCert,
}

/// A public key, keypair, or key certificate.
#[derive(Clone, Debug)]
#[non_exhaustive]
pub struct KeystoreItem(KeystoreItemInner);

/// The inner representation of a KeystoreItem.
#[derive(Clone, Debug)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum KeystoreItemInner {
    /// A public key or a keypair.
    Key(SshKeyData),
    /// A certificate.
    Cert(CertData),
}

enum CertData {
    /// A tor-specific ed25519 cert.
    TorEd25519Cert(Vec<u8>),
}

// ======= unchanged =========

/// A public key or a keypair.
#[derive(Clone, Debug)]
#[non_exhaustive]
pub struct SshKeyData(SshKeyDataInner);

/// The inner representation of a public key or a keypair.
#[derive(Clone, Debug)]
#[non_exhaustive]
enum SshKeyDataInner {
    /// The [`KeyData`] of a public key.
    Public(KeyData),
    /// The [`KeypairData`] of a private key.
    Private(KeypairData),
}
// ======= unchanged end =========
```
