doc/dev/rpc-book/src/rpc-cookie-sketch.md, before:

# RPC cookie authentication

This is based on the Tor control port's cookie authentication mechanism.

It's meant for use over a connection to a TCP port on localhost.

We try to provide the property that if a client and a server successfully
complete this process, then each one knows that the other was able to read
a given secure cookie file on the filesystem.


## Preliminaries

Let `P` be the 32-byte string
"====== arti-rpc-cookie-v1 ======".

Let MAC(a,b,c,...) be TupleHash,
the Keccak-based cryptographic digest function
described in Section 5 of [NIST SP 800-185],
using the output length `L = 256 bits`,
and the customization string `S = "arti-rpc-cookie-v1"`

> NOTE: Do not substitute any other hash function without cryptographic
> analysis!  In particular, we rely on TupleHash(K,a,b,c,d,...)
> instantiating a proper message-authentication-code over a unique
> encoding of the tuple `(a,b,c,d,...)`.

The client and server begin by knowing the location of a "cookie file."
That file contains the 32-byte fixed string `P`, followed by a 32-byte secret
`cookie` generated by the server. The server generates this file at startup.
Before connecting, the client reads this file,
and determines the value of `cookie`.

> Both parties need to make sure that the file isn't writeable by any
> untrusted user.  This is out-of-scope for this document.

The RPC client treats failures to read a cookie file
the same as a failure to read a connect file.

> To recap those rules:
>
> If the client cannot read the cookie file because of `EACCESS` or `ENOENT`
> or local equivalent,
> then the client *declines* the connect point.
> If the client fails to read the cookie file for some other reason,
> then the client *aborts* its connection to RPC.

If the cookie file is malformed, the client also *aborts*.
(A cookie file is malformed if it does not begin with `P`,
or if it is not exactly 64 bytes long.)

If the RPC server cannot write the cookie file,
it is a fatal error regardless of the reason.

Strings are represented in UTF-8 without a trailing NUL byte.

[NIST SP 800-185]: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-185.pdf

## The protocol

At the start of the process,
the client knows this value from the connect point:
  - `socket`: The address at which to connect to the server.

At the start of the process,
the client and server additionally know this value from the connect point:
  - `socket_canonical`:
     The address at which the server is actually listening.
     If absent, defaults to the value of `socket` from the connect point.
     If the address is a unix path containing shell-style expansions,
     then this value is taken _after_ shell expansion.

> Note that this protocol will only succeed
> if the value of `socket_canonical` seen by the client
> is exactly the same string as
> the value of `socket_canonical` seen by the server.

The client and server know this value from the cookie file:
  - `cookie`: The value of the cookie.

1. The client connects to the server at `socket`.

   The client generates a random 32-byte nonce `client_nonce`,
   and the server generates a random 32-byte nonce `server_nonce`.
   These nonces MUST NOT be reused.

2. The client sends `client_nonce`.

3. The server computes
   `server_mac = MAC(cookie, "Server", socket_canonical, client_nonce)`
   and sends (`server_mac`, `socket_canonical`, `server_nonce`).
   (See below for the encoding.)

4. The client computes `server_mac`,
   and verifies that its value matches the one
   provided by the server.  If it does not match, it aborts the protocol.
   If it does match, the client computes
   `client_mac = MAC(cookie, "Client", socket_canonincal, server_nonce)`,
   and sends `client_mac` to the server.

5. The server computes `client_mac`, and verifies that its value matches the one
   provided by the client.  If it does not match, this connection attempt aborts.
   Otherwise, the parties are authenticated.

## In Arti-RPC.

This protocol is selected from an RPC connect point as discussed
in `rpc-connect-sketch.md`.

The client's message in step 2 is sent by invoking the `auth:cookie_begin` method,
implemented on the connection object.
It expects a single `client_nonce` parameter.

The server's message in step 3 is embedded in the server's response to that
method, in a set of fields: `server_addr`, `server_mac`, and `server_nonce.`
Additionally, the response includes an object ID in a `cookie_auth` field
This object holds the in-progress authentication state, and can be used
for a single `auth:cookie_continue` command.

The client's message in step 4 is sent by invoking the
`auth:cookie_continue` method,
directed to the object ID received in the `cookie_auth` field.

All binary values are encoded as hexadecimal strings before sending in JSON.

Commit message:

RPC spec: specify banner format.
See #1753.

This banner message will give the client a clear signal that the
server is ready, so that the client will know that it can read
files (such as a cookie file) written by the server.

(We can't use "is the port bound" as a way to signal that the
server is ready, since the server needs to bind the port in order
to determine that there isn't another server running... which
it needs to do before it can write an rpc cookie file.)

doc/dev/rpc-book/src/rpc-cookie-sketch.md, after:

# RPC cookie authentication

This is based on the Tor control port's cookie authentication mechanism.

It's meant for use over a connection to a TCP port on localhost.

We try to provide the property that if a client and a server successfully
complete this process, then each one knows that the other was able to read
a given secure cookie file on the filesystem.


## Preliminaries

Let `P` be the 32-byte string
"====== arti-rpc-cookie-v1 ======".

Let MAC(a,b,c,...) be TupleHash,
the Keccak-based cryptographic digest function
described in Section 5 of [NIST SP 800-185],
using the output length `L = 256 bits`,
and the customization string `S = "arti-rpc-cookie-v1"`

> NOTE: Do not substitute any other hash function without cryptographic
> analysis!  In particular, we rely on TupleHash(K,a,b,c,d,...)
> instantiating a proper message-authentication-code over a unique
> encoding of the tuple `(a,b,c,d,...)`.

The client and server begin by knowing the location of a "cookie file."
That file contains the 32-byte fixed string `P`, followed by a 32-byte secret
`cookie` generated by the server. The server generates this file at startup.
After connecting and receiving a banner message,
but before authenticating, the client reads this file,
and determines the value of `cookie`.

> Both parties need to make sure that the file isn't writeable by any
> untrusted user.  This is out-of-scope for this document.

The RPC client treats failures to read a cookie file
the same as a failure to read a connect file.

> To recap those rules:
>
> If the client cannot read the cookie file because of `EACCESS` or `ENOENT`
> or local equivalent,
> then the client *declines* the connect point.
> If the client fails to read the cookie file for some other reason,
> then the client *aborts* its connection to RPC.

If the cookie file is malformed, the client also *aborts*.
(A cookie file is malformed if it does not begin with `P`,
or if it is not exactly 64 bytes long.)

If the RPC server cannot write the cookie file,
it is a fatal error regardless of the reason.

Strings are represented in UTF-8 without a trailing NUL byte.

[NIST SP 800-185]: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-185.pdf

## The protocol

At the start of the process,
the client knows this value from the connect point:
  - `socket`: The address at which to connect to the server.

At the start of the process,
the client and server additionally know this value from the connect point:
  - `socket_canonical`:
     The address at which the server is actually listening.
     If absent, defaults to the value of `socket` from the connect point.
     If the address is a unix path containing shell-style expansions,
     then this value is taken _after_ shell expansion.

> Note that this protocol will only succeed
> if the value of `socket_canonical` seen by the client
> is exactly the same string as
> the value of `socket_canonical` seen by the server.

The client and server know this value from the cookie file:
  - `cookie`: The value of the cookie.

1. The client connects to the server at `socket`.

   The client generates a random 32-byte nonce `client_nonce`,
   and the server generates a random 32-byte nonce `server_nonce`.
   These nonces MUST NOT be reused.

2. The client sends `client_nonce`.

3. The server computes
   `server_mac = MAC(cookie, "Server", socket_canonical, client_nonce)`
   and sends (`server_mac`, `socket_canonical`, `server_nonce`).
   (See below for the encoding.)

4. The client computes `server_mac`,
   and verifies that its value matches the one
   provided by the server.  If it does not match, it aborts the protocol.
   If it does match, the client computes
   `client_mac = MAC(cookie, "Client", socket_canonincal, server_nonce)`,
   and sends `client_mac` to the server.

5. The server computes `client_mac`, and verifies that its value matches the one
   provided by the client.  If it does not match, this connection attempt aborts.
   Otherwise, the parties are authenticated.

## In Arti-RPC.

This protocol is selected from an RPC connect point as discussed
in `rpc-connect-sketch.md`.

The client's message in step 2 is sent by invoking the `auth:cookie_begin` method,
implemented on the connection object.
It expects a single `client_nonce` parameter.

The server's message in step 3 is embedded in the server's response to that
method, in a set of fields: `server_addr`, `server_mac`, and `server_nonce.`
Additionally, the response includes an object ID in a `cookie_auth` field
This object holds the in-progress authentication state, and can be used
for a single `auth:cookie_continue` command.

The client's message in step 4 is sent by invoking the
`auth:cookie_continue` method,
directed to the object ID received in the `cookie_auth` field.

All binary values are encoded as hexadecimal strings before sending in JSON.
